inline styles; using style="border:2px solid black;color:red;" shouldn't be used too often
CSS is read from top to bottom, if something is written in the top AND the bottom, it will overwrite the top version
Inline style (inside an HTML element)
External and internal style sheets (in the head section)
Browser default 
priority among defining CSS files ^^^^

background-color: sets background color
background-image: sets background image, eg background-image: url("LINK")
background-repeat: some images need to repeat up or across, you can define which way using background-image: repeat-x or repeat-y, or no-repeat
background-position: can actually position images, using words, eg: background-position: right top, left top, left bottom ect
background-attachment: specifies that the background image will be fixed (not scroll with the page) eg: background-attachment: fixed;
background: can also use this to shorten code, eg: background: #4e4e4e url('link!') no-repeat right top; HOWEVER MUST BE IN COLOR, IMAGE, REPEAT, ATTACHMENT, POSITION order.

border-style: defines what type of border, eg dotted, dashed, solid, double, groove, ridge, inset, outset, none and hidden, can use more than one at a time.
border-width: specifies the width of the border, can have from one to 4 values (for each border)
border-color: sets color of each border, can have from one to 4 values (for each border) if not defined, inherits color of the same element
can actually define each different border like; border-top-style, border-left-style, border-right-style, border-bottom-style.
if border-style has 4 args: top, right, bottom, left
if border-style has 3 args: top, right left, bottom
if border-style has 2 args: top bottom, left right
if border-style has 1 arg: explanatory.
border: can also use this to shorten code eg: border: 2px solid black. must be in size, type, color order.
can also use border-left, border-right, border-top, border-bottom to change properties of just one side
and also border-left-color, border-right-style, border-top-width ect to change specifics of one side
border-radius: can use this to add ROUNDED borders to an element

margins can be used like; margin-top, margin-left, margin-right, margin-bottom or just like margin, and can have the following values auto, px/cm/pt, percentages, inherits.
if using margin: 4 args. order: top, right, bottom, left
3 args: top, right left, bottom
2 args: top bottom, right left
1 arg: explanatory.
auto to horizontally center the element within its container, will take up as much space as needed and remaining space split evenly left and right
inherit will generally use parent element and margin using that

padding: can be used pretty similarly to margin, accepts cm/px/pt, percentages, and inherits
can use like, padding-top, padding-bottom, padding-left, padding-right
if using padding: 4 args, order: top, right, bottom, left
3 args: top, right left, bottom
2 args: top bottom, left right
1 arg: explanatory.
width specifies the width of the elements content area, content area is the portion inside the padding, border, and marging of the element.
padding is additional to the specified width, where the width is 300px and padding is 25px, total width of the element is 350px, 300 + 25px + 25px.
to get around adding extra width with padding, use the box-sizing property. this causes the element to maintain its width if you increase the padding it decreases content area
